.TH PFXHTTP.YML 5 "January 2025" "pfxhttp 1.0" "Configuration Files"
.SH NAME
pfxhttp.yml \- Configuration file for pfxhttp, an HTTP Proxy for Postfix

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBpfxhttp.yml\fP file is a YAML-based configuration file that controls the behavior of \fBpfxhttp\fP. This tool enables Postfix to utilize HTTP-based services as socket maps or policy services, providing flexibility for custom integrations.

A typical configuration consists of the following main sections:

.IP
* \fBserver\fP: Global server settings, including logging, communication settings, HTTP client behavior, and optional TLS configuration.
.IP
* \fBsocket_maps\fP: Definitions of socket maps that can be used by Postfix for dynamic lookups.
.IP
* \fBpolicy_services\fP: Definitions of policy services for validating or processing Postfix requests.

.SH CONFIGURATION
The configuration file uses the YAML format, containing key-value pairs organized hierarchically. Below are the main sections explained in detail:

.SS SERVER
The \fBserver\fP section provides global settings for how \fBpfxhttp\fP operates, including logging, communication settings, HTTP client behavior, and optional TLS configuration.

.nf
.EXAMPLE
server:
  listen:
    - kind: "socket_map"
      name: "map"
      type: "tcp"
      address: "0.0.0.0"
      port: 23450
  logging:
    json: false
    level: debug
  http_client:
    max_connections_per_host: 10
    max_idle_connections: 4
    max_idle_connections_per_host: 1
    idle_connection_timeout: 10s
    proxy: "http://proxy.example.com:3128"
  tls:
    enabled: true
    cert: "/etc/pfxhttp/cert.pem"
    key: "/etc/pfxhttp/key.pem"
    http_client_skip_verify: true
  socketmap_max_reply_size: 100000
  jwt_db_path: "/var/lib/pfxhttp/jwt.db"
  response_cache:
    enabled: true
    ttl: 1m
.fi
.RE

.TP
.B listen
Configures the connections \fBpfxhttp\fP listens to for requests.
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
.B kind:
Specifies the type of service (\fBsocket_map\fP or \fBpolicy_service\fP).
.IP \[bu] 2
.B type:
The connection type. Can be \fBunix\fP, \fBtcp\fP, or \fBtcp6\fP.
.IP \[bu] 2
.B name:
Optional for \fBsocket_map\fP, but required for \fBpolicy_service\fP.
.IP \[bu] 2
.B address:
For \fBtcp\fP or \fBtcp6\fP, the network address to bind to (e.g., \fB0.0.0.0\fP). For \fBunix\fP, the filesystem path to the Unix domain socket.
.IP \[bu] 2
.B port:
The port used to listen for connections. Relevant only for \fBtcp\fP and \fBtcp6\fP types.
.IP \[bu] 2
.B mode:
Applicable only for \fBunix\fP sockets. Sets the socket's access permissions as an octal value, such as \fB0666\fP.
.RE

.TP
.B logging
Specifies logging behavior.
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
.B json:
Enables JSON format logging (\fBtrue\fP or \fBfalse\fP).
.IP \[bu] 2
.B level:
Sets the verbosity of logs. Options are \fBnone\fP, \fBerror\fP, \fBinfo\fP, or \fBdebug\fP.
.RE

.TP
.B http_client
Configures the behavior of the HTTP client used by \fBpfxhttp\fP.
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
.B max_connections_per_host:
Maximum number of concurrent connections per host.
.IP \[bu] 2
.B max_idle_connections:
Maximum number of idle connections allowed in total.
.IP \[bu] 2
.B max_idle_connections_per_host:
Maximum idle connections per host.
.IP \[bu] 2
.B idle_connection_timeout:
Timeout for idle connections. This is a Go duration string (e.g., \fB500ms\fP, \fB10s\fP, \fB1m\fP). Range: 1ms to 1h.
.IP \[bu] 2
.B proxy:
HTTP proxy URL to use for outbound requests (e.g., \fBhttp://proxy.example.com:3128\fP).
.RE

.TP
.B tls
TLS configuration for secure HTTP connections. All fields are optional.
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
.B enabled:
Enables or disables TLS (\fBtrue\fP or \fBfalse\fP).
.IP \[bu] 2
.B cert:
Path to the TLS certificate (optional).
.IP \[bu] 2
.B key:
Path to the TLS private key (optional).
.IP \[bu] 2
.B http_client_skip_verify:
If \fBtrue\fP, disables verification of peer certificates by the HTTP client.
.RE

.TP
.B socketmap_max_reply_size
Specifies the maximum reply size for socket maps. Defaults to \fB100000\fP if not explicitly configured.

.TP
.B jwt_db_path
Path to the SQLite database file used for storing JWT tokens. This is required if JWT authentication is enabled for any socket map or policy service.

.TP
.B response_cache
Configures caching of HTTP responses.
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
.B enabled:
Enable or disable the in-memory response cache (true/false).
.IP \[bu] 2
.B ttl:
Time-to-live for cached responses as a Go duration string (e.g., 30s, 1m, 10m). Range: 1s to 168h.
.RE

.SS SOCKET_MAPS
The \fBsocket_maps\fP section defines services used by Postfix to perform dynamic lookups. This functionality is commonly used for querying an external service to map a key (e.g., an email address or domain) to a value.

.nf
.EXAMPLE
socket_maps:
  demo_map:
    target: "https://your-api.example.com/api/v1/map"
    custom_headers:
      - "Authorization: Bearer <token>"
    payload: >
      {
        "key": "{{ .Key }}"
      }
    status_code: 200
    value_field: "data.result"
    error_field: "error"
    no_error_value: "not-found"

  jwt_demo_map:
    target: "https://your-api.example.com/api/v1/map"
    jwt_auth:
      enabled: true
      token_endpoint: "https://your-auth.example.com/token"
      credentials:
        username: "username"
        password: "password"
    payload: >
      {
        "key": "{{ .Key }}"
      }
    status_code: 200
    value_field: "data.result"
    error_field: "error"
    no_error_value: "not-found"
.fi
.RE

.TP
.B http_request_compression
If true, compresses HTTP request bodies with gzip.

.TP
.B http_response_compression
If true, sends an Accept-Encoding header to request gzip-compressed responses.

.TP
.B jwt_auth
Configures JWT authentication for the socket map. This is an alternative to using custom_headers for authentication.
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
.B enabled:
Enables or disables JWT authentication (\fBtrue\fP or \fBfalse\fP).
.IP \[bu] 2
.B token_endpoint:
The URL of the token endpoint that provides JWT tokens.
.IP \[bu] 2
.B credentials:
A map of key-value pairs where the keys are the field names to use in the request and the values are the credentials for authentication at the token endpoint.
.IP \[bu] 2
.B content_type:
The content type to use for token requests. Can be \fBapplication/x-www-form-urlencoded\fP (default) or \fBapplication/json\fP.
.RE

.TP
.B payload
Defines the HTTP request body for socket maps. The placeholder \fB{{ .Key }}\fP is required and represents the lookup key provided by Postfix.

.SS POLICY_SERVICES
The \fBpolicy_services\fP section defines external HTTP services used for Postfix policy decisions. Examples include sender authentication or access restriction checks.

.nf
.EXAMPLE
policy_services:
  example_policy:
    target: "https://your-api.example.com/api/v1/policy/check"
    custom_headers:
      - "Authorization: Bearer <token>"
    payload: "{{ .Key }}"
    status_code: 200
    value_field: "policy.result"
    error_field: "policy.error"
    no_error_value: "OK"

  jwt_example_policy:
    target: "https://your-api.example.com/api/v1/policy/check"
    jwt_auth:
      enabled: true
      token_endpoint: "https://your-auth.example.com/token"
      credentials:
        username: "username"
        password: "password"
    payload: "{{ .Key }}"
    status_code: 200
    value_field: "policy.result"
    error_field: "policy.error"
    no_error_value: "OK"
.fi
.RE

.TP
.B http_request_compression
If true, compresses HTTP request bodies with gzip.

.TP
.B http_response_compression
If true, sends an Accept-Encoding header to request gzip-compressed responses.

.TP
.B jwt_auth
Configures JWT authentication for the policy service. This is an alternative to using custom_headers for authentication.
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
.B enabled:
Enables or disables JWT authentication (\fBtrue\fP or \fBfalse\fP).
.IP \[bu] 2
.B token_endpoint:
The URL of the token endpoint that provides JWT tokens.
.IP \[bu] 2
.B credentials:
A map of key-value pairs where the keys are the field names to use in the request and the values are the credentials for authentication at the token endpoint.
.IP \[bu] 2
.B content_type:
The content type to use for token requests. Can be \fBapplication/x-www-form-urlencoded\fP (default) or \fBapplication/json\fP.
.RE

.TP
.B payload
Defines the HTTP request body for policy services. The placeholder \fB{{ .Key }}\fP is required and is replaced with the JSON-encoded policy request provided by Postfix. This request contains all available policy attributes. The payload can also be passed as a nested JSON structure, for example:
.nf

Payload:
{
  "policy_request": {{ .Key }}
}
.fi

.TP
.B value_field
The JSON field in the HTTP response containing the policy result to be returned to Postfix.

.TP
.B no_error_value
A specific value that may be returned by the HTTP server to indicate no error occurred.

.SH POSTFIX INTEGRATION
Below are examples for incorporating the \fBsocket_map\fP and \fBpolicy_service\fP types in Postfix configurations. These examples assume a correctly configured pfxhttp server.

.SS SOCKET_MAP INTEGRATION
To use a \fBsocket_map\fP in your Postfix configuration, include it as a socket map in your `main.cf`:

.nf
# main.cf
virtual_mailbox_domains = socketmap:tcp:127.0.0.1:23450:demo_map
.fi

This example assumes:
- A listener in \fBpfxhttp.yml\fP is defined for \fBsocket_map\fP:
.nf
server:
  listen:
    - kind: "socket_map"
      name: "demo_map"
      type: "tcp"
      address: "127.0.0.1"
      port: 23450
.fi

Explanation:
- Postfix connects to the \fBtcp\fP listener on `127.0.0.1:23450`.
- The lookup key is provided from Postfix's requests (e.g., domain names).
- The result is returned from the \fBpfxhttp\fP service.

.SS POLICY_SERVICE INTEGRATION
To implement a \fBpolicy_service\fP, add it to the appropriate Postfix \fBcheck_policy_service\fP configuration (commonly used in the `smtpd_recipient_restrictions`):

.nf
# main.cf
smtpd_recipient_restrictions =
    permit_mynetworks,
    reject_unauth_destination,
    check_policy_service inet:127.0.0.1:23451
.fi

This example assumes:
- A listener for a \fBpolicy_service\fP is configured in \fBpfxhttp.yml\fP:
.nf
server:
  listen:
    - kind: "policy_service"
      name: "example_policy"
      type: "tcp"
      address: "127.0.0.1"
      port: 23451
.fi

Explanation:
- The payload sent to the HTTP service uses the Postfix policy request converted to JSON, passed as \fB{{ .Key }}\fP.
- Postfix queries the policy service for decisions based on this request.
- The policy service responds with actions like `DUNNO`, `REJECT`, or other return codes to modify Postfix’s behavior.

.SH FILE LOCATIONS
Configuration files are searched in the following order:
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
.B /usr/local/etc/pfxhttp/pfxhttp.yml
.IP \[bu] 2
.B /etc/pfxhttp/pfxhttp.yml
.IP \[bu] 2
.B $HOME/.pfxhttp/pfxhttp.yml
.IP \[bu] 2
.B ./pfxhttp.yml
.RE

.SH JWT AUTHENTICATION
The \fBpfxhttp\fP application supports JSON Web Token (JWT) authentication for secure communication with HTTP services. This section explains how JWT authentication works in the application.

.SS OVERVIEW
JWT authentication provides a secure way to authenticate requests to HTTP services. The application manages the entire token lifecycle, including:

.IP \[bu] 2
Fetching new tokens from an authentication server
.IP \[bu] 2
Storing tokens securely in a SQLite database
.IP \[bu] 2
Refreshing tokens when they expire
.IP \[bu] 2
Caching tokens in memory for improved performance

.SS TOKEN ENDPOINT REQUIREMENTS
To use JWT authentication, you need to configure a token endpoint that supports the following:

.TP
.B Token Request
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
.B Method:
POST
.IP \[bu] 2
.B Content-Type:
Either \fBapplication/x-www-form-urlencoded\fP (default) or \fBapplication/json\fP
.IP \[bu] 2
.B Body:
Credentials as specified in the configuration (username, password, client_id, etc.)
.IP \[bu] 2
.B Response:
JSON object containing \fBtoken\fP, \fBrefresh_token\fP, and \fBexpires_at\fP fields
.RE

.TP
.B Example Request (application/x-www-form-urlencoded):
.nf
POST /token HTTP/1.1
Host: auth.example.com
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded

username=user&password=pass
.fi

.TP
.B Example Response:
.nf
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json

{
  "token": "eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9...",
  "refresh_token": "eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9...",
  "expires_at": 1672531200
}
.fi

.SS TOKEN REFRESHING
When a token expires, the application attempts to refresh it before fetching a new one. The refresh mechanism works as follows:

.TP
.B Refresh Request
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
.B Method:
POST
.IP \[bu] 2
.B Header:
X-Refresh-Token: <refresh_token>
.IP \[bu] 2
.B Response:
Same format as the token request response
.RE

.TP
.B Example Refresh Request:
.nf
POST /token HTTP/1.1
Host: auth.example.com
X-Refresh-Token: eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9...
.fi

.SS TOKEN MANAGEMENT
The application uses a sophisticated token management system:

.IP \[bu] 2
Tokens are cached in memory to reduce database access
.IP \[bu] 2
Tokens are stored in a SQLite database for persistence across restarts
.IP \[bu] 2
Tokens are automatically refreshed when they expire
.IP \[bu] 2
A 30-second buffer is applied before expiration to avoid using tokens that are about to expire

.SS CONFIGURATION
To enable JWT authentication, you need to configure both the server and the individual requests:

.TP
.B Server Configuration:
.nf
server:
  jwt_db_path: "/var/lib/pfxhttp/jwt.db"  # Path to the SQLite database for token storage
.fi

.TP
.B Request Configuration:
.nf
socket_maps:
  example_map:
    target: "https://api.example.com/map"
    jwt_auth:
      enabled: true
      token_endpoint: "https://auth.example.com/token"
      credentials:
        username: "user"
        password: "pass"
      content_type: "application/x-www-form-urlencoded"  # Optional, default value
.fi

.SS COMPATIBILITY
JWT authentication in \fBpfxhttp\fP has been successfully tested with Nauthilus, an authentication and authorization server. The token refreshing mechanism is implemented according to the Nauthilus specification, using the X-Refresh-Token header.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR postfix (1),
.BR pfxhttp (8)

.SH AUTHOR
This manpage was written by the pfxhttp development team.
