
.TH PFXHTTP 8 "January 2025" "pfxhttp 1.0" "System Administration Utility"
.SH NAME
pfxhttp \- A lightweight HTTP proxy for Postfix socket maps and policy services

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pfxhttp -h
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pfxhttp
is a lightweight HTTP proxy seamlessly integrated with Postfix, enabling communication with external HTTP-based APIs for socket maps and policy services.

Common use cases for the application include:
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
Retrieving dynamic data via socket maps, such as virtual mailbox or domain mappings.
.IP \[bu] 2
Implementing custom email policy checks through HTTP-based policy services.
.RE

The application configuration is typically managed through a YAML file (default) and may define HTTP endpoints, request formats, and field mappings.
Environment variables take precedence over the configuration within the YAML file when both are specified.

.SH CONFIGURATION
By default, \fBpfxhttp\fP reads its YAML configuration file from one of the default paths listed under the section
.B FILE LOCATIONS

Alternative configuration formats are supported if explicitly specified.

It is possible to start the service without a configuration file, if you have specified all settings as environment variables.

Environment variables, when set, override the corresponding options in the configuration file.

For detailed information on the YAML configuration format, refer to the \fBpfxhttp.yml(5)\fP manual page.

.SH STARTING THE SERVICE
\fBpfxhttp\fP supports optional command-line arguments and requires a valid configuration to run. It is usually managed as a system service.

The command-line options are:
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
.B --config <path>
Provides the path to the configuration file, overriding the default locations.
.IP \[bu] 2
.B --format <type>
Specifies the output format for logs or diagnostics (e.g., json, toml). The default is yaml.
.RE

Here is an example of a \fBsystemd\fP service file that runs \fBpfxhttp\fP:

.nf
[Unit]
Description=PfxHTTP Postfix-to-HTTP server
After=network.target

[Service]
Type=simple
Restart=always
User=pfxhttp
Group=pfxhttp
EnvironmentFile=-/etc/default/pfxhttp
ExecStart=/usr/local/sbin/pfxhttp
StandardOutput=journal
StandardError=journal
SyslogIdentifier=pfxhttp
MemoryMax=50M
CPUQuota=10%

CapabilityBoundingSet=CAP_NET_BIND_SERVICE CAP_CHOWN
PrivateTmp=true
ProtectSystem=full
ProtectHome=true
NoNewPrivileges=true
ReadOnlyPaths=/etc
ProtectKernelModules=true
MemoryDenyWriteExecute=true
ProtectControlGroups=true
ProtectKernelLogs=true
ProtectClock=true
RestrictSUIDSGID=true
ProtectProc=invisible
LimitNOFILE=1024
#RestrictAddressFamilies=AF_INET AF_INET6

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
.fi

You must create a user pfxhttp and a group pfxhttp before using this unit file!

To set it up as a system service on a systemd-based Linux system, save the file above to
\fI/etc/systemd/system/pfxhttp.service\fP.
reload systemd, then enable and start the service:

.nf
  sudo systemctl daemon-reload
  sudo systemctl enable pfxhttp
  sudo systemctl start pfxhttp
.fi

.SH LOGGING
By default, logs are output to standard output and usually captured by the service manager (e.g., \fBsystemd\fP). Logging verbosity can be adjusted through the configuration file or environment variables.

.SS SESSION TRACKING
Every incoming connection is assigned a unique \fBsession\fP ID (16-character random hex string).
All log messages related to that connection include this session ID, making it easy to trace activity
for a specific client connection.

Within a connection, each individual request (e.g., a socket map lookup, a policy check, or a SASL
AUTH/CONT command) receives a unique \fBsub_session\fP ID. This allows fine-grained tracing of
individual requests within a long-lived connection.

.SS SYSTEMD INTEGRATION
When running under \fBsystemd\fP, the journal already adds timestamps. To avoid duplicate timestamps,
set \fBuse_systemd: true\fP in the logging configuration. This removes the \fBtime\fP field from
log output while keeping all other fields (level, message, session, sub_session, etc.) intact.

.SS TROUBLESHOOTING
If \fBpfxhttp\fP fails to start, common sources of errors include:
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
An invalid or missing configuration (file or environment variables).
.IP \[bu] 2
Insufficient permissions. Ensure \fBpfxhttp\fP runs with the proper privileges for the defined resources.
.RE

Refer to the logs for specific errors.

.SH FILE LOCATIONS
Configuration files are searched in the following order:
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
.B /usr/local/etc/pfxhttp/pfxhttp.yml
.IP \[bu] 2
.B /etc/pfxhttp/pfxhttp.yml
.IP \[bu] 2
.B $HOME/.pfxhttp/pfxhttp.yml
.IP \[bu] 2
.B ./pfxhttp.yml
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR postfix (1)
.BR pfxhttp.yml (5),

.SH AUTHOR
This manpage was written by the pfxhttp development team.